+++
title = "Referral triads"
date = "2025-03-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = ["**Mathijs De Vaan**", "Toby Stuart"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Administrative Science Quarterly"
#publication_short = "ASQ"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.

# abstract = "We propose a generalized focal loss function based on the Tversky index to address the issue of data imbalance in medical image segmentation. Compared to the commonly used Dice loss, our loss function achieves a better trade off between precision and recall when training on small structures such as lesions. To evaluate our loss function, we improve the attention U-Net model by incorporating an image pyramid to preserve contextual features. We experiment on the BUS 2017 dataset and ISIC 2018 dataset where lesions occupy 4.84% and 21.4% of the images area and improve segmentation accuracy when compared to the standard U-Net by 25.7% and 3.6%, respectively."

abstract = "Third parties who refer clients to expert service providers help clients navigate market uncertainty by curating well-tailored matches between clients and experts and by facilitating post-match trust. We argue that these two functions often entail trade-offs because they require referrers to activate network relationships with different experts. While strong ties between referrers and experts promote trust between clients and experts, the presence of such ties reduces the likelihood that intermediaries refer clients to socially distal experts who may be better suited to serve clients’ needs. We examine this central and unexplored tension by using full population medical claims data for the state of Massachusetts. We find that when primary care physicians (PCPs) refer patients to specialists with whom the PCPs have strong ties, patients demonstrate more confidence in the specialists’ recommendations. However, a strong tie between the PCP and specialist also reduces the expertise match between a patient’s health condition and a specialist’s clinical experience. These findings suggest that the two central means by which referrers add value may be at odds with one another because they are maximized by the activation of different network ties."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = "static/img/ftl.png"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/00018392241296140"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/00018392241296140"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Journal"
#url = "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10584-014-1174-4"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "ftl.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
