+++
title = "The Association of Opioid Prescriptions to Children after Discharge from Surgery and New Opioid Prescription Fills in Family Members"
date = "2025-02-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = ["Erica Langnas", "Andrew Lin", "Yanting Luo", "Rosa Rodriguez-Monguio",
"Mark Bicket", "Sara Cairo", "**Mathijs De Vaan**", "Catherine L. Chen"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "The Journal of Pediatrics"
#publication_short = "ISBI"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.

#abstract = "We propose a generalized focal loss function based on the Tversky index to address the issue of data imbalance in medical image segmentation. Compared to the commonly used Dice loss, our loss function achieves a better trade off between precision and recall when training on small structures such as lesions. To evaluate our loss function, we improve the attention U-Net model by incorporating an image pyramid to preserve contextual features. We experiment on the BUS 2017 dataset and ISIC 2018 dataset where lesions occupy 4.84% and 21.4% of the images area and improve segmentation accuracy when compared to the standard U-Net by 25.7% and 3.6%, respectively."

abstract = "**Objective**: To determine whether family members of pediatric surgical patients who filled a discharge opioid prescription would have higher rates of new opioid prescription fills compared with family members of patients who did not fill a pediatric surgical discharge opioid prescription. **Study design**: Using OptumLabs Data Warehouse administrative claims, we performed a retrospective cohort study of pediatric surgery patients aged 5 through 18 and their family members, based on whether an opioid prescription for the child was filled after surgery. Neither patients nor family members had any history of prior opioid use. We calculated the frequency of new opioids filled among family members in the 12 months following the date of surgery. We created a hierarchical logistic regression model to determine the association between having a discharge opioid prescription filled for a pediatric surgical patient and a new opioid prescription filled by family members within the same household. **Results**: There were a total of 206,598 family members within 76,569 households in our study. 73.75% of pediatric surgery patients had a prescription filled after surgery, resulting in 151,693 total family members within 56,456 households exposed to a new discharge opioid prescription. 7.3% of exposed family members and 19.6% exposed households then filled a new opioid prescription within 12 months, compared with 5.2% of family members and 13.3% of households (p<0.001 for both) unexposed to a filled opioid prescription after pediatric surgical discharge. After adjusting for demographic factors, clinical attributes, and surgical factors, we found an increased risk of new opioid prescription fills among exposed family members compared with unexposed family members (OR 1.28 (95% CI 1.217, 1.352, p<0.001)). **Conclusions**: Introducing a discharge opioid prescription after pediatric surgery to an opioid-naïve household is associated with increased rates of opioid prescriptions in opioid-naïve family members in the year following surgery."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = "static/img/ftl.png"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022347625000459"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Journal"
#url = "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11192-024-04968-7"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "ftl.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
